yep
Dave what's the sound day Dave your
microphone it's not on the button with
the picture of the microphone I'm a
villain called end this happen hello
sometimes designing sound for a scene
can be sort of like orchestrating a
group of sounds almost like working with
an orchestra in a sense mainly it's
three elements coming together it's
dialogue music and effects and it's the
balance of those three elements it may
not look much when you get into a
recording studio but every button every
piece of glass all goes into how a voice
recording can sound
my name is ty Sheldon I'm the recording
engineer for DreamWorks Animation my
name is Rick Rumaki and I'm the in-house
sound designer sound mixer your entry
works animation all right Chris we are
rolling won't you give me an a B and a C
okay are you my family hi Chris I'm just
picking up a little bit too much noise
on that third take you want to get
another three okay okay we're on
you don't have a family and we're all
going to die whoa
that's the gold right there
without sound there would be no movies I
mean you wouldn't be able to really tell
the story you know say you're listening
to a song that's audio telling a story
without picture say you sit down to
watch a movie and for a moment there's a
completely blank screen once that music
comes in you know exactly how to feel
because of the way the music is making
you feel whether it's dark or whether
it's happy you immediately know without
any visual what the director is trying
to make you feel at this particular
moment in a feature like the Penguins of
Madagascar the sound designer and mixer
Paul audison can be working with
anywhere from 150 to 1,100 audio tracks
you know each and every one of these
sounds plays a particular role in
telling the story also sounds are
purposely placed in various speakers
around the room in order to make your
listening experience that much more
exciting every frequency has its part in
the story time take the bass for
instance that's something you can
physically feel and that Rumble is gonna
make the biggest action sequences really
come to life
I think now more than ever we're seeing
some pretty major leaps in technology
which are affecting the way that people
watch and listen to movies advances and
home theater technologies are constantly
making it easier for people to feel like
they're a part of the action that's
unfolding on-screen I think these days
people are becoming more and more aware
of the role that sound plays in
storytelling
more and more often people are looking
for a bigger experience so whether
you're in a theater or your own home
people always looking for new ways of
hearing a story come to life
Oh